The game logic is implemented in C, whereas controlling device interactions are assigned with ARM Assembler. The programme will be executed on a Raspberry Pi 3, involving interaction components such a LEDs, a button and a LCD display. Essentially, the game involves a codebreaker that attempts to guess a hidden sequence of codes, generated by the code keeper (random sequence generated by the programme), whilst it provides feedback on the accuracy of the guesses, informing users of it’s exact and approximate matches. 

Our primary files are “lcdBinary.c” and “master-mind.c”. The former file is responsible for interacting with the hardware components, using a mixture of C and Assembly code where necessary. On the other hand, the latter file consists of the main game logic, providing the game functionality in which the application poses as a codekeeper and the user is a codebreaker. Essentially, the file supplies all necessaries libraries imported, defining all constants and pins that will be used throughout the code within functions and their parameters. We then refer to the low-level hardware interface thar is responsible for interacting with the GPIO pins, such as digitalWrite and waitForButton. We commence our game logic that contains functions for initializing the secret sequence with the assistance of a random generator and displaying it on the terminal window, and then counting the exact and approximate matches between two sequences, parsing all input sequences , before entering a loop where the player makes guesses and the game responds until the sequence has been cracked. Additional auxiliary functions, such as delay functions, handling timers and timeouts and an LCD display function have also been included. Error conditions and appropriate responses have also been acknowledged to allow for efficient programming. To run our code, we first compile our code, to convert the source code into machine code, with the provided compilation lines, compiling the source code files into object files (“.o”) and linking them together to create a finalized version of our executable program. Once we run the code through the run file command, a welcome message is displayed and the game commences. 

We compile the code using the following commands on your terminal : 

gcc -c -o lcdBinary.o lcdBinary.c
gcc -c -o master-mind.o master-mind.c
gcc -o master-mind master-mind.o lcdBinary.o

Once we’ve successfully compiled the code, we now run it through the final terminal. These compilations essentially compile and link the files with their object files, so we can link both files.

sudo ./master-mind
